August 29, testing, testing. Yes, sir. Testing 1,
2, 3, 4. This is August 29th, and we're at 905
Carmel. And I have the honor and pleasure of
chatting with General Randolph. Randolph.
Randolph. OLPH. And about his days as a student at
Texas A&M. To begin with, Describe family and
background and growing up and what did mom and dad
do? Brief biographical summary before you came to
A&M. Okay, sir. It was pretty simple. I was born in
Corpus right at the end of the war, 45, July 45. My
daddy was in essential industry. He was a
petroleum engineer out of LSU. He was working for
Standard Stanley Oil, and he ran oil field camps.
He was the head engineer. In 46, he moved to
Houston. The family moved to Houston, and he went
to work as the chief petroleum engineer for Wesley
West. And so I lived in the same house from 46 to
September of 63 when I went to A&M, the same room.
Went to River Oaks Elementary School, Lanier
Junior High School, Lamar High School. Mainly
played football, did other sports, but
everything was secondary to football. And then my
other interests besides hunting and fishing,
which my grandfather, who was a Teddy Roosevelt
environmentalist but didn't realize it, at the
time taught me the art and the finer points of the
outdoors and hunting and fishing. enjoying the
outdoors, but we, my father bought, started
buying some acreage in Grimes County, Texas, 65
miles north of Houston in the 50s. And by 1957
through 4-H and everything, I was raising
registered Angus cattle and quarter horses and
breaking horses and rodeoing and calf roping and
really focused on the ranch, the farm and the ranch
activities, although living in Houston was
spending most of my time, especially after I got my
driver's license, up at the ranch. Came to Texas
A&M
The first time I ever came here, I was swimming. I
was a high school swimmer because that was one
thing that didn't conflict with football as far as
the seasons went. And I came to the state meet. The
Texas state meet was in the old dungeon where the
zone sits on top of my swimming pool now. The P.L.
Downs Natatorium. Right. And that was my first
trip, and I saw the cadets and everything, but was
focused on the swimming meet. What was your
impression from that visit? That very orderly
place. I'd been to Rice. I'd played football at the
Rice University, Rice Institute Stadium. And so
that was in my hometown, and I'd seen a lot of Rice.
And so when I came to A&M, I thought it was a very
disciplined campus compared to the Rice campus.
That was my two comparisons. But you had no A&M
family. No. My mother and dad went to LSU. my
brother my older brother went to Tulane and so I it
was my senior year at a high school that I said well I
want to be a veterinarian because I was kind of
that's all I really enjoyed doing was working on
horses and I was going to be my goal was to be a A rodeo
veterinarian. I knew I wasn't a good enough calf
roper to make it big time calf roping, but I loved to
do it. And I liked rodeo clowning. I was a clown for
four years. But you couldn't make a lot of money
enough to support yourself, so I said, well, I'll
be the rodeo vet. and I'll take care of all the
quarter horses on the circuit. And so I went to, I
came up here and I met, who later became my advisor,
Dr. Romaine, out at the vet school. And talked to
him and, you know, he figured out right quick I knew
a lot about horses and that I was, you know, just had
a natural, we went out to the stables and And he
could just tell I knew a lot about horses. And so he
was encouraged me to apply to A&M. I don't remember
anything at all about the application being
accepted or anything. I just know that it was the
only place I applied. If you were a Texan and you
wanted to go to vet school, you went to A&M for
pre-vet. I mean, there was no... You could have
gone to Sam Houston State or something and
transferred over, but it was kind of a
cut-and-dried situation. In 1963? 1963. And so I
came up here. My mother brought me up. Just to
enroll? To enroll. No, just to enroll. I don't
remember. I probably drove myself up to see Dr.
Romain because it takes 35 minutes to get from the
farm. So, you know, on Highway 30, I would just cut
through. And I was in and around this place all the
time. And so I probably came up to see him by myself.
But I remember my mother and Mrs. Jessie
Gallagher, who was a nurse, a nurse, A Houston
nurse, longtime friend of the family's, drove me
up. And except for football cleats, I'd never worn
shoes. I'd always worn cowboy boots. And so my
memory of coming on the campus was they cut my hair
off. And I'd never had long hair, but they cut it
off. And I didn't like that. and um and then they
made me wear shoes that we went to you know uh what is
the military is called the cif the central issue
facility i'm sure i'm not sure what it was called at
a m at the time but they issued us our khakis and and
you know our uniforms and they they um issued us
some black leather shoes and then that day we
shined them and and um and i had to wear them and i I
absolutely detested wearing shoes. I thought
they were the worst looking things, and they
weren't comfortable. And being a short guy, I
liked the high heels that the cowboy boots gave me,
another inch and a half of height. I didn't get that
from the loafer shoes, the military shoes. But I
went into A3 Vet. Just saying, let me interrupt
that. Now, when you came up that day to enroll, Who
brought you and what stuff did you bring with you?
Well, that's really interesting because today
I'd go to jail. My mother brought me up. And, you
know, the fall is when hunting season starts.
Matter of fact, I'm leaving Friday to break in the
2001 season at our lease in South Texas. So I came up
with my shotgun, my rifle, and I used a straight
razor. That's what I shaved with. And that's just
what I had. And nobody said anything. The rifle was
a Winchester Model 94. I'm sure I had five bullets
in the magazine. The shotgun was a Remington Model
31 pump. It was my granddad's, and I'm sure I had two
7 1â„2s in the magazine. And they stayed in my
closet. And the only thing, and then that straight
razor was in my room there in my foot locker. And the
only thing I remember about that, I mean, the only,
there was never a question was having a gun on
campus, but the both guns and the straight razor
had to be ready for inspection. So they were the
cleanest they'd ever been in their lives because
they had to be ready for all those inspections. And
so I always had a couple of things to clean up that
other people didn't have. but nobody said
anything, and I don't remember bringing anything
else. You didn't bring no hats, and what about
other, did you bring it all in the foot locker,
whatever you did bring? Well, I did, but because
our ranch was here, I had all my clothes 35 miles
away, And then, initially, I didn't have a car
because it just didn't seem like it wasn't
discussed. But very quickly, I made good enough
grades at the break point in the fall semester.
There was a break point there. And if you made a
certain GPR, all of a sudden, you got all kinds of
freedoms. But until that point, we were
sequestered. We never left the campus and
everything except I was running these cattle.
these registered cattle. I mean, they were my
cattle. And so I fairly early on snuck my Jeep, I had
a Jeep, and snuck the Jeep onto campus. And I'm not
even sure where I parked it. I didn't park it behind
17 then. It was later that I parked it behind 17. But
I would sneak out of Durham 17 at 1 o'clock in the
morning. go check my cattle, just make the rounds
with the headlights, and be back by three or four,
you know, and we just, nobody know the difference.
And I didn't cause any trouble, but, you know, the
cattle had to be checked. I had a fellow, a friend, a
neighbor, who I talked to just today, he was
feeding them for me. But, you know, and salting and
everything, but, you know, it was my cattle. So I
remember that was kind of an early issue, and then
someone said, well, if you make a certain grade
point ratio, you can have a car and you can leave
campus. And I said, during the day? I mean, you
know, like, I could leave, you know, legally? And
so that was my incentive to study real hard. Now,
when your mom left you that day, Do you remember any
advice or counsel that she gave you or your dad had
given you the night before? No, it's interesting.
My brother and I have talked about it. My dad was a
product of the Depression. You know, he'd gone
through World War II, and he did not give advice. He
was a heck of a role model as a work ethic, a work
ethic role model. He was prepared for the next
Depression. He was prepared for the next World War
II. But he wasn't a philosopher. You know, he
didn't give advice. My mom, mother has, and she's
82 in Houston and is in great health and doing
wonderful. She's had something that she told me
then and she's told me a million times since. And
she says everything always works out for the best.
So she says don't worry about things. I was a
certain, to a certain degree, a worrier. And she
knew that, I guess. And she says, you know, Randy,
things will work out for the best. And then I
noticed as things would go on and I would call home,
very seldom did I talk to my dad. But mother, I'd
always talk to mom. And if I ever was feeling down or
had a, you know, was going to do something that she
didn't think was right, instead of telling me not
to do it, She'd say, sleep on it and call me
tomorrow. Well, by tomorrow, it was okay. So I
think that was the only thing I remember was, you
know, everything works out for the best, and if
you're down, just sleep on it. It'll look better
tomorrow. And you got assigned to what outfit? A3
vet. John Kieschnick was my company commander.
Did it have a nickname? Well, you asked that in the
paperwork, and I've looked, and if it did, I don't
recall. The only thing I recall about it was like
September the 15th or 16th. We started school in
September back then, which I think is wonderful.
The thought of school, I never liked school.
Matter of fact, when I went to kindergarten at
River Oaks Elementary, my mother took me. We
walked to school. And I beat her home the first day
of school. And I announced when she came back, I was
sitting on the back steps, that I didn't like
school. And the thought of starting in August
would have just killed me. But we started back then
in mid-September. And John Kieschnick, they'd
cut our hair off, and we were in our PT gear, our
physical training gear. And we were on our seats.
And there was, in my... In A3 Vets, there was about
60 of us, as I recall. It could have been 40, but I've
always thought there was about 60 fish in A3. And
our knees are under our chins, and we've got our
arms around our knees. John Kieschnick's got his
boots on, and he's marching back and forth down the
hall. And he said, okay, fish, look to your left,
look to your right. Those guys are going to be
missing soon. And I think out of the... 50 or 60 of
us, nine graduated from A&M. And it always struck
me that A&M, and when I would get lieutenants from
A&M in the military, I'd always have to caution
them that the mission is not to run off people in the
Army, the mission is to keep people. And so, you
know, it always struck me that at least that A3
company prided itself with my fish roommate,
about, it was Fish Lillard. I don't know what his
first name was. He was from Beaumont. And he lasted
about three weeks. And one weekend, he never came
back. And his folks came back and got his stuff. But
I never saw Fish Lillard again. But they were so
hard on him because he was kind of meek and mild. And
that was not what they wanted in A3. Mm-hmm. And so
it was, you know, that was kind of the entrance. And
I was a little negative at the end of that meeting,
the way it went. But that night, we went to G.
Raleigh White. We marched to G. Raleigh White. It
was my first night on campus, I think. And we were
all marched in there, and we were sat down. And the
upperclassmen, and I'm not sure if they were the
sophomores and juniors, but the upperclassmen
were standing in the aisles and we were sitting in
the bleachers looking down at the basketball
court. And General Earl Rudder came out and he got a
microphone and he had this, as I remember, this
billowing voice and he welcomed us and he told us
some of the history of A&M and And he talked a little
bit about what A&M had done, as far as A&M cadets had
done in World War II. And then he says, and I need to
tell you a story because some of you are going to
want to quit. And you need to know that Aggies
aren't quitters. And he said, I was given the
mission as a young lieutenant colonel to take
Pointe du Hoc. He says, I know none of you have ever
been there, and I doubt if any of you know where it
is, but it's in France, and it's just off the
Normandy beaches to the right of Normandy
beaches. He said there was some German, and I'll
never forget this. I mean, I was mesmerized. I'm
looking down at this guy, and he says there was some
German field guns that could range the Allied
shipping, and it was in fortified positions.
concrete reinforced bunkers and they allied
planes for months in preparing the battlefield
had bombed Pointe du Hoc but the Germans to make
sure that we knew that it was bombing was a failure
every once while we just run one of those big uh
coastal artillery pieces out of the end of the
bunker and shoot out into the Atlantic to tell us
that they were still fine. So my rangers, the
second ranger battalion that I commanded was
given the mission to take it. And he said, when I
looked at the maps, the grid lines stacked on top of
one another at the point where the ocean and the
land met. And I know you don't know anything about
military maps, but that meant it was a cliff. And so
we began to train in England on cliff climbing. and
he said the Rangers were a tough bunch and had gone
through all kind of special training, but then we
began, you know, how to get up this cliff, and we
knew that they would be, for sure, rolling rocks
down on us and probably shooting with the small
arms right down on us, so we were going to have to do
this at night. So the training in England
progressed from day... cliff climbing, and we
found a suitable place to night cliff climbing. I
had people rolling rocks down on the soldiers. I
mean, he went through all this, and I was
mesmerized. Well, as he's telling the story, a
Texas thunderstorm begins to materialize, and it
starts lightning, and you can hear the thunder,
and then it would lightning, and then it would be
pitch dark. And one of the bolts obviously hit a
critical point on campus. And all the lights in G.
Raleigh went out. All the electricity went out.
And it was pitch dark, except when it was
lightning. And there would be light, and there
would be pitch dark, and the thunder, and the
tremendous bolts. And General Rutter never
stopped talking. The microphone went out. But
there was an acoustic, pretty good acoustics
there, and his billowing voice just came from that
basketball floor. He was marching back and forth
and telling us about climbing up and getting shot
at and everything and what his rangers were doing.
And then the lightning would hit, and you'd see him
down there, and then it would be pitch dark. And
about the time, you know, the crescendo of his
speech and the crescendo of the lightning and the
thunder is there and he's ending his speech, all
the electricity comes back on and gee raleigh. He
ends his presentation and I remember
whoever was next to me, I said to him, this guy's
really good. And I remember thinking, I wonder if
he does this every September like this. But any
time from then on, I felt like quitting A&M, the
thought would quickly pass because I was afraid I
might have to go see General Rutter or something.
And so I never really had serious thoughts of
quitting A&M at all. And I'll never forget that,
and I've told that story many a time. All right,
describe how your outfit was put together in the
dorm. You're in what dorm? 17, which is over by the
Agriculture Extension Service Building. But I
think it has a name now, but it used to be a number,
17. And we were at the end of the quad from Sabisa,
and then we had the longest way to march to Sabisa.
And did you all have the whole dorm? Well, you know,
I don't know that. I was on the first floor, and I
know we had the whole first floor, and that was
enough for me. Describe your room, what was in it,
and so forth. Well, it was austere because
anything you had in it had to be ready for
inspection, so nobody in their right mind had
extra stuff in this room because if you did, you had
to have it cleaned and everything. And the only
thing that I guess I ever really got in trouble for
was
I loved peanut butter sandwiches. And I loved them
at midnight and 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning or
whatever. And underneath the sink where the
plumbing was, there was a metal plate with four
screws. And that's where I kept my bread and my
peanut butter. And then one day, one of the
inspections, they noticed the paint, you know,
from the screw was chipped. And so they took the
plate off, and there was my peanut butter and my
bread. But the room was, you know, it had two
closets. It had bunk beds and one window and a
radiator and had, you know, just blinds,
Venetian-type blinds. And fish weren't allowed
any posters or anything. And you each had a desk
right by the
radiator there that just faced out. And I think
there was one dresser that you shared. After your
first fish old lady dropped out of school, did they
move somebody else in? Billy Provine from
Alexandria, Louisiana. And he and I are past
friends today. And Billy, I was raised as a hunter
and a fisherman and a natural woodsman. And Billy
Provine was five times the hunter and fisherman.
He was from Alexandria. And we kind of supported
ourselves by frogging in through the years we
would and we would sell the bullfrogs in the season
to the local restaurants and we we would frog all
over you know the farms on the other side of the
railroad tracks we knew every little slew and
every little pond and we had our frog gigs and And he
had his... Y'all started that as freshmen? Yeah,
we just started... We were both outdoorsmen, and
that's what we liked. So you gigged them and
dressed them? Right. And there were several
little restaurants in Bryan. Do you remember what
the price was you were able to sell them for? We sold
them in a bag, and it was kind of, I think, about a
pound. And so you used... I don't recall the money,
but it was... It was certainly spending money for
us. I mean, it was just a few dollars, I'm sure. What
was the routine at night in your dorm? Well, to the
credit of the Corps, the Corps was, at least A3
being a vet company, a pre-vet company, and the
juniors and seniors were in vet school, that they
were pretty disciplined about us studying and And
so there was a call to quarters between a certain
time and a certain time. And I'll say it's like 1930
to 2130 or something that you had to be at your desk
with your elbows on your desk studying. I mean,
that was reading and studying and writing. And
that was for like three hours. And the good news
about that was you couldn't be harassed. No
upperclassmen could come in there and harass you.
The only place you could go outside your room was a
latrine. And so it was a focused study time. Now,
let's see. Now, G7, a year or two later, John Sharp
and Rick Perry were in a pre-vet company. Did you
overlap with them? Not that I know of, no. Because
they were in the same outfit. Yeah. I went, you
know, 3rd Brigade, at the end of my fish year, 1963,
at the end of 64,
spring of 64, the Corps went voluntary. And so the
next year when we came back, the Corps was much
smaller. And they had done away with the 3rd
Brigade. And so we moved, I was a sophomore in B-1
vets. And that was in the New Dorm area. And Duncan
was our mess hall. And I know the dorm, but I don't
recall the number. but I know where it was. And so
then I was a B1 vet. But back that fish year, after
1030, there could be some harassment. What kind of
things went on in your life? Well, we only had one,
and I learned a lot about leadership. Because we
had...
I figured out right quick this was a game. And...
And so I kind of approached it as a game and never
really took any of this very seriously, any of this
harassment. There were pissheads who had to
harass who didn't like to do it. And you figured
those out. They were play acting. They were
hollering and whatever, and they were not
serious. And it was just, it was their mission.
They had to do that. And at the same time, we're
doing some coaching and teaching along the way,
and you kind of gained... some admiration and
respect for those guys. Gosney, there was several
of them that I admired. But there was one, his name
was Bill Bamberg from Buffalo, New York, and he
busted out as a sophomore. But he was from north of
Dallas, and he acted like a Yankee, and he thought
like a Yankee, and he thought all that
upperclassman stuff was real serious. And he took
it serious, and... He just, you know, I used to feel
sorry for him because he really thought that he
was, you know, scaring us and it was all I could do
not to laugh in his face, you know. And I wasn't
surprised when he didn't come back because he just
didn't fit with the other guys. So when I got, so I
figured out when I was going to be an
upperclassman, I was going to be one of those guys
that focused on Coaching and teaching and not
harassing, not hollering. As a military officer,
I never hollered at troops because they're not
going to listen to that. Because I learned right
quick as a fish. And I learned it with Texas
football. I had some coaches that hollered and
some coaches that taught. And the ones that taught
and coached and mentored, you listened and you
learned from. And the hollers, you kind of wrote
them off. And it was the same thing in my... So there
was some hollering going on, but it never... I
don't ever... And I've looked at my journals. I
never remember... I never wrote down being mad or
being upset or... And I just... I remember...
having to not laugh though because that didn't
make that didn't help you you did a lot of push-ups
if you laughed and and thank goodness i was had a
strong enough body because i did do a lot of
push-ups and that was about the most serious thing
that happened and and but i'd done a lot of push-ups
in football so i that was not anything that you know
now did they use the paddle in your outfit No, I
don't remember the paddle. Maybe they did, but I
don't remember that. What I remember, the thing
that I remember that I didn't like was when you
leaned against the wall and they ran the clothes
hanger down and they hit that clothes hanger
between your fanny and the wall. Now that hurt. And
the more you pressed against the wall, the more
they made you put your feet out and the more weight
you put against the wall, the harder they had to get
that clothes hanger down. And so I don't remember a
paddle at all. Was that a punishment device? Oh, it
was kind of a rites of passage. I don't remember as
punishment as much as you kind of just... You know,
we knew that was going to happen every night. And it
left a pink fanny? Yeah, oh, I'm sure it did. I mean,
I never looked, but I remembered saying, because
I, you know, they had paddles in high school and
junior high school, and, you know, I'd been, I had
my rounds there, and I remember that the paddle
didn't hurt at all compared to this clothes hanger
going. I said, whoever came up with that, you know,
was, you know, really was out to impress you. All
right, now, academically, do you remember going
through registration your first semester, or
were your courses decided by? No, matter of fact,
registration was in Duncan.